# Leveraging Data Analytics for Environmental Sustainability
#### This repository demonstrates the application of data analytics for environmental sustainability, focusing on pollution remediation and product management. It includes research conducted with contaminated mining samples from the Davidschacht mining area in Freiberg, Sachsen. The project aims to optimize pollution reduction strategies and enhance sustainable product development by leveraging advanced analytical techniques.
# Case Study
#### Research on contaminated soils from Davidschacht mining area, Freiberg, Sachsen, 09599 (Germany) with Tailing which was in operation from 1951 to 1964. It has an area of approximately 6.3 ha and a volume of approximately 760,000 m3.
# Thesis Topic
#### Effect of soil amendment combination of artificial root exudates and plant growth promoting bacteria on phytoremediation of potential toxic elements in soil
# Thesis Proposal
## Statement of Problem and Purpose of Research:
#### Tailings from mine sites have high concentrations of inorganic pollutants (heavy metals), which lead to contamination of soil, surface, and underground water because of leaching. This creates the possibility for these contaminants to cause harm to living organisms in the environment and affect biodiversity negatively. Therefore, there is the need to remediate these contaminants in the environment to reduce their concentration and if possible, eliminate their chances of being toxic to living organisms. One of such means of remediation involves the use of plants which is called phytoremediation. Several studies on phytoremediation exist but to the best of my knowledge, there is scarce information on the effect of soil amendment with plant growth promoting bacteria combined with varying concentrations of artificial root exudates (ARE) on phytoremediation of heavy metals in soil. Thus, in this study, we set out to elucidate the impact a treatment combination of Bacillus amyloliquefaciens and varying ARE concentrations on phytoremediation of heavy metals in tailing soils obtained from Davidschacht (Freiberg) using Zea mays and Fagopyrum esculentum as test plants.
